---
title: 2025 Work
description: Review of my current work in 2025 to now
date: 2026-06-25
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

I have been working on designs, research for a multiple of areas in 2025 and 2026 for a new direction in my life. After working at Shopify as a Director of Engineering, I've been spending a lot of my time in forests and outdoors. So I have been working towards better understanding the needs of today to protect it. I have attempted to work with institutes such as the BC Government and UBC in Canada but they refused to work with me. So I've been working on all these areas in private alone and self funded.

Ecology - sound of life. I've been continuing the research from [Karen Bakker](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Sounds-Life-Digital-Technology-Bringing/dp/0691206287) to understand the sounds of life and how we can better nurture it and assist the preservation of farming, food and our lovely forests. I have been working privately with the lands I've been able to access freely and the unique sound projection of devices that clean the land for unknown sound sources to ensure full growth of a cherry tree, tomatoes growing in the winter, all not seen on the land in the last 5 years.

It's been difficult to concentrate with all that has happened to me with my life in Canada since moving 2011, so I developed a unique mind board to work like a modern chalk board inspired from a Daltu board. The word daltu is an ancient Semitic term (Akkadian and Ugaritic) that translates to "door" or "gate". The Assyrian Daltu meant "door," or "jaws, also meant 'mouth' of a river. It is the direct historical ancestor of the Greek letter Delta (Δ). It included a Galileo inspired 1second updating planetary alignment clock, a unique mind eye visualization of identity for Mana (if you believe in that), a time of the day based on the sun/moon exact to your location. Allowing me to work in peace from my previous trauma/stresses. I no longer use this clock today, as I found myself not using it and being fine with knowing when the sun is up and down.

With Computer Science, I've been investigating getting more out of less. Investigating the lower levels of compute to leverage a CPU. I had a thinkpad x250 for a while and used it with low powered linux optimizations to ensure I could use the machine for 8 hours plus for what i would normally use on a macbook air.

I have been designing good use cases of AI for personal use. Indexing books as a literal conversational search bot that is curated and custom to academics. Such that you could talk to Charles Darwin but tuned based on the individuals working on it in private, not one large model of AI that we all use today, but one that can run on one machine and curated to the author. Indexing and allowing custom data to be added, curating and customizing for difficult problems of today such as ensuring food seeds germinate, forests survive the growing wildfires, disease control, creativity and innovation from specific groups of people that are private. I envisage one day that this will become a copy of myself, a Kalvir Sandhu that I can then multiply myself for the work I want to do.

Reducing Earthquakes/Volcanos. I have been collecting data on the rising earthquakes and designing methods to pattern detect such that if the rise starts to really destroy the planet, I'll be able to build a calculator of some form to better give early warnings using a global data source and pattern detection, similar to how we predict the weather. The unknown for me is the rising [global electric storm](https://www.blitzortung.org/en/live_lightning_maps.php) we are having right now and is not stopping. When I first discovered it, it peaked at 5k every 2 hours and now it hits 50k every 2 hours, this a lot of lightning that the core of the earth is absorbing and perhaps is a cause of the rise of volcanos and earthquakes.

Stopping Tornados. I have designed a device the size of a water bottle to change micro climates to stop Tornados as soon as they hit key critical cities, farms and families. I believe that the solution lies with creating micro-front climates that eject low temperature airs into the edge of the Tornado. These devices could be setup around key cities, farms, produce and homes to ensure their protection.

The device, or multiple devices would be constructed around the following design:
- Low powered, solar charged and ready to be 'fired' into the tornado
- A nitrogen or other dry ice compound to be ejected far up into the atmosphere, rapidly changing the temperature of the surrounding air. It could be deployed on towers, knowing that the towers would be ripped into an upcoming tornado, and then when the pressure changes in the monitoring sensors the device can then deploy the micro-front.
- This exploration of micro-front creation devices to rapidly change the pressure in a small scale climate can then be used for other applications to adapt the environment and the weather.
